# Wilby##### A python automated tool to file organizationWilby is a python tool that automatically moves and organizes files based on the configuration set on your xml file. It can easily set up a project by creating the folder strucuture and moving the files or even saving your time by organizing your folders automatically.### How it works##### Directory structure creation Wilby uses a configuration file(currently only xml is supported), which is by default named [**orgstructure.xml**](https://github.com/VirtualIceShard/Wilby/blob/master/orgstructure.xml). Based on this, Wilby checks if the directories listed in the configuration file exist and if not then Wilby creates then. The directories are created based on the root directory, which is by default the directory where Wilby is being executed.###### Note: once you create an instance of Wilby, keep in mind that the steps above will only be executed the first time you execute the method `organize()`. This happens because we want to support applications that use Threads to keep organizing files, and executing the directory check everytime would result in a bad performance. If you want to check the directories too, invoke the method `check_dirs()` before invoking `organize()`.&nbsp;##### File organizationAfter checking the folder structure, Wilby starts organizing the files based on the file-orientation from the configuration file. The first attribute to be checked is the file type, which is defined in the `<for>` tag, or _file-orientation_. The `<for>` tag contains a list of conditions to the file, and the attribute folder indicates the destination folder to the file that goes through all the conditions.The `<sor>` childs, which are _sub-orientations_ are conditions to the file. There are various categories to check a file, all of them are listed below:- FileTypeSpecification - Checks the file type declared int the `spec` attribute- PrefixSpecification - Checks the file prefix declared in the `spec` attribute- SufixSpecification - Checks the file sufix declared in the `spec` attribute- PrefixAndSufixSpecification - Checks the file prefix and sufix declared in the `spec` attribute, separed two `%` characters (e.g.: index`%%`-2.0)- FullNameSpecification - Checks the file by it's name declared in the `spec` attribute.